README.md, before:

# Open Source For Common Good
A curated list of open source projects that serve a social or environmental goal.

Some projects out there didn't make the list, because while being cool, didn't have any history of pull-requests and few or no collaborators.  Right now, I'm only including projects that have had some activity in the past year.  I might start a second list for projects that look promising, but have gone quiet and cool use a revival. 

---

### Citizen Journalism
| Project | Description | Status |
|--|--|--|
| [Aleph](https://github.com/alephdata/aleph) | Aleph is a tool for indexing large amounts of both documents (PDF, Word, HTML) and structured (CSV, XLS, SQL) data for easy browsing and search. It is built with investigative reporting as a primary use case. |![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/alephdata/aleph.svg)| |
| [DogwoodBC's Ban Big Money API](https://github.com/DogwoodBC/bigmoney/) | A Django0rest api for political contributions in BC, Canada | [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/DogwoodBC/bigmoney.svg)](https://github.com/DogwoodBC/bigmoney/) [![GitHub open pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr-closed/DogwoodBC/bigmoney.svg)](https://github.com/DogwoodBC/bigmoney/pulls) | |
| [Tabula](https://github.com/tabulapdf/tabula) | Useful for pulling tables from PDFs | [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/tabulapdf/tabula.svg)](https://github.com/tabulapdf/tabula) [![GitHub open pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/tabulapdf/tabula.svg)](https://github.com/tabulapdf/tabula/pulls)  | |

### Civic Data
| Project | Description | Status |
|--|--|--|
| [OpenStates](https://github.com/openstates/openstates) | The Open States Project collects and makes available data about state legislative activities, including bill summaries, votes, sponsorships and state legislator information | [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/openstates/openstates.svg)](https://github.com/openstates/openstates) [![GitHub open pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/openstates/openstates.svg)](https://github.com/openstates/openstates/pulls) |
| [Pupa](https://github.com/opencivicdata/pupa) | A framework for scraping legislative/government data | [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/opencivicdata/pupa.svg)](https://github.com/opencivicdata/pupa) |
| [Councilmatic](https://github.com/datamade/django-councilmatic) |  The django-councilmatic app provides the core functionality for the Councilmatic family, a set of web apps for keeping tabs on local city council.  | [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/datamade/django-councilmatic.svg)](https://github.com/datamade/django-councilmatic) [![GitHub open pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/datamade/django-councilmatic.svg)](https://github.com/datamade/django-councilmatic/pulls) |
| [OpenSpending](https://github.com/openspending/openspending) | [OpenSpending](https://openspending.org/) is a project to make government finances easier to explore and understand. It started out as "Where does my money go", a platform to visualize the United Kingdom's state finance, but has been renamed and restructured to allow arbitrary financial data to be loaded and displayed. | [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/opencivicdata/pupa.svg)](https://github.com/openspending/openspending) |

### Community Building
- Warmshowers is a hospitality site for cycle-tourists - https://github.com/warmshowers/Warmshowers.org
- TerraStories is an application designed to help communities map and access their own place-based storytelling. - https://github.com/rubyforgood/terrastories [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/opencivicdata/pupa.svg)](https://github.com/rubyforgood/terrastories)

### Humanitarian
- HospitalRun is an open source hospital information system.  The project welcomes new contributors, and has a very active community - https://github.com/HospitalRun/hospitalrun-frontend
- Emergency/Disaster Mapping - https://github.com/hotosm/osm-tasking-manager2

### Robotics
- Elcano - a self-driving recumbent tricycle - https://github.com/elcano/elcano [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/elcano/elcano.svg)](https://github.com/elcano/elcano)
- Solar Concentrator - Open Hardware Solar concentrator, Linear Fresnel Reflector -  https://github.com/osefrance/SolarConcentrator [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/elcano/elcano.svg)](https://github.com/osefrance/SolarConcentrator)

### Ecological Research
- Oceanography for everyone - https://github.com/OceanographyforEveryone/OpenCTD

### Other
| Project | Description | Status |
|--|--|--|
| [Protecting US Federal climate data](https://github.com/climate-mirror/) | Climate Mirror - an open project to mirror public climate datasets | |
| [Stolen Bike Index](https://github.com/bikeindex/bike_index) | It is the most widely used and successful bicycle registration service in the world with over 188,000 cataloged bikes, 550 community partners and tens of thousands of daily searches.  | [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/bikeindex/bike_index.svg)](https://github.com/bikeindex/bike_index) [![GitHub open pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/bikeindex/bike_index.svg)](https://github.com/bikeindex/bike_index) |
| [ElectricityMap](https://github.com/tmrowco/electricitymap-contrib) | Real-time map for CO2 emissions by country/region from electricity |  [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/tmrowco/electricitymap-contrib.svg)](https://github.com/tmrowco/electricitymap-contrib) [![GitHub open pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/tmrowco/electricitymap-contrib.svg)](https://github.com/tmrowco/electricitymap-contrib) |
| [Our Sci](https://gitlab.com/our-sci)| Write scripts to visualize data from open source hardware sensors live on an android app.  From GOAT, which is all about open source Ag Tech http://forum.goatech.org/ | |

## Events, Workshops, and Competitions:
- Kaggle, Understanding Human Impact on the Amazon Rainforest: https://www.kaggle.com/c/planet-understanding-the-amazon-from-space 
- Data Science for Social Good - https://dssg.uchicago.edu/
- DrivenData's data science competitions - https://www.drivendata.org/competitions/

Where else to look:
- Github's list of trending projects with social benefit: https://github.com/showcases/social-impact
- Tools for activism has some open-source projects listed along with other services: https://github.com/drewrwilson/toolsforactivism
- Datakind is a network "Harnessing the power of data science in the service of humanity".  Check out their projects @ http://www.datakind.org/projects

Commit message:

Added Nature For People
Repo doesn't have guidelines for contributions, but the project is too cool not to include.

README.md, after:

# Open Source For Common Good
A curated list of open source projects that serve a social or environmental goal.

Some projects out there didn't make the list, because while being cool, didn't have any history of pull-requests and few or no collaborators.  Right now, I'm only including projects that have had some activity in the past year.  I might start a second list for projects that look promising, but have gone quiet and cool use a revival. 

---

### Citizen Journalism
| Project | Description | Status |
|--|--|--|
| [Aleph](https://github.com/alephdata/aleph) | Aleph is a tool for indexing large amounts of both documents (PDF, Word, HTML) and structured (CSV, XLS, SQL) data for easy browsing and search. It is built with investigative reporting as a primary use case. |![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/alephdata/aleph.svg)| |
| [DogwoodBC's Ban Big Money API](https://github.com/DogwoodBC/bigmoney/) | A Django0rest api for political contributions in BC, Canada | [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/DogwoodBC/bigmoney.svg)](https://github.com/DogwoodBC/bigmoney/) [![GitHub open pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr-closed/DogwoodBC/bigmoney.svg)](https://github.com/DogwoodBC/bigmoney/pulls) | |
| [Tabula](https://github.com/tabulapdf/tabula) | Useful for pulling tables from PDFs | [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/tabulapdf/tabula.svg)](https://github.com/tabulapdf/tabula) [![GitHub open pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/tabulapdf/tabula.svg)](https://github.com/tabulapdf/tabula/pulls)  | |

### Civic Data
| Project | Description | Status |
|--|--|--|
| [OpenStates](https://github.com/openstates/openstates) | The Open States Project collects and makes available data about state legislative activities, including bill summaries, votes, sponsorships and state legislator information | [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/openstates/openstates.svg)](https://github.com/openstates/openstates) [![GitHub open pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/openstates/openstates.svg)](https://github.com/openstates/openstates/pulls) |
| [Pupa](https://github.com/opencivicdata/pupa) | A framework for scraping legislative/government data | [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/opencivicdata/pupa.svg)](https://github.com/opencivicdata/pupa) |
| [Councilmatic](https://github.com/datamade/django-councilmatic) |  The django-councilmatic app provides the core functionality for the Councilmatic family, a set of web apps for keeping tabs on local city council.  | [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/datamade/django-councilmatic.svg)](https://github.com/datamade/django-councilmatic) [![GitHub open pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/datamade/django-councilmatic.svg)](https://github.com/datamade/django-councilmatic/pulls) |
| [OpenSpending](https://github.com/openspending/openspending) | [OpenSpending](https://openspending.org/) is a project to make government finances easier to explore and understand. It started out as "Where does my money go", a platform to visualize the United Kingdom's state finance, but has been renamed and restructured to allow arbitrary financial data to be loaded and displayed. | [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/opencivicdata/pupa.svg)](https://github.com/openspending/openspending) |

### Community Building
- Warmshowers is a hospitality site for cycle-tourists - https://github.com/warmshowers/Warmshowers.org
- TerraStories is an application designed to help communities map and access their own place-based storytelling. - https://github.com/rubyforgood/terrastories [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/opencivicdata/pupa.svg)](https://github.com/rubyforgood/terrastories)

### Humanitarian
- HospitalRun is an open source hospital information system.  The project welcomes new contributors, and has a very active community - https://github.com/HospitalRun/hospitalrun-frontend
- Emergency/Disaster Mapping - https://github.com/hotosm/osm-tasking-manager2

### Robotics
- Elcano - a self-driving recumbent tricycle - https://github.com/elcano/elcano [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/elcano/elcano.svg)](https://github.com/elcano/elcano)
- Solar Concentrator - Open Hardware Solar concentrator, Linear Fresnel Reflector -  https://github.com/osefrance/SolarConcentrator [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/elcano/elcano.svg)](https://github.com/osefrance/SolarConcentrator)

### Ecological Research
- Oceanography for everyone - https://github.com/OceanographyforEveryone/OpenCTD
- Nature for People - Global Modeling of Nature’s Contributions to People - https://github.com/charlottegiseleweil/natureforpeople [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/elcano/elcano.svg)](https://github.com/charlottegiseleweil/natureforpeople)


### Other
| Project | Description | Status |
|--|--|--|
| [Protecting US Federal climate data](https://github.com/climate-mirror/) | Climate Mirror - an open project to mirror public climate datasets | |
| [Stolen Bike Index](https://github.com/bikeindex/bike_index) | It is the most widely used and successful bicycle registration service in the world with over 188,000 cataloged bikes, 550 community partners and tens of thousands of daily searches.  | [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/bikeindex/bike_index.svg)](https://github.com/bikeindex/bike_index) [![GitHub open pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/bikeindex/bike_index.svg)](https://github.com/bikeindex/bike_index) |
| [ElectricityMap](https://github.com/tmrowco/electricitymap-contrib) | Real-time map for CO2 emissions by country/region from electricity |  [![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/tmrowco/electricitymap-contrib.svg)](https://github.com/tmrowco/electricitymap-contrib) [![GitHub open pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/tmrowco/electricitymap-contrib.svg)](https://github.com/tmrowco/electricitymap-contrib) |
| [Our Sci](https://gitlab.com/our-sci)| Write scripts to visualize data from open source hardware sensors live on an android app.  From GOAT, which is all about open source Ag Tech http://forum.goatech.org/ | |

## Events, Workshops, and Competitions:
- Kaggle, Understanding Human Impact on the Amazon Rainforest: https://www.kaggle.com/c/planet-understanding-the-amazon-from-space 
- Data Science for Social Good - https://dssg.uchicago.edu/
- DrivenData's data science competitions - https://www.drivendata.org/competitions/

Where else to look:
- Github's list of trending projects with social benefit: https://github.com/showcases/social-impact
- Tools for activism has some open-source projects listed along with other services: https://github.com/drewrwilson/toolsforactivism
- Datakind is a network "Harnessing the power of data science in the service of humanity".  Check out their projects @ http://www.datakind.org/projects
